The Comedie of Errors.

Actus primus, Scena prima.

Enter the Duke of Ephesus, with the Merchant of Siracusa, Iaylor,
and other attendants.

  Merchant. Proceed Solinus to procure my fall,
And by the doome of death end woes and all.

   Duke. Merchant of Siracusa, plead no more.
I am not partiall to infringe our Lawes;
The enmity and discord which of late
Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your Duke,
To Merchants our well-dealing Countrimen,
Who wanting gilders to redeeme their lives,
Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their blouds,
Excludes all pitty from our threatning lookes:
For since the mortall and intestine iarres
Twixt thy seditious Countrimen and us,
It hath in solemne Synodes beene decreed,
Both by the Siracusians and our selves,
To admit no trafficke to our aduerse townes:
Nay more, if any borne at Ephesus
Be seene at any Siracusian Marts and Fayres:
Againe, if any Siracusian borne
Come to the Bay of Ephesus, he dies:
His goods confiscate to the Dukes dispose,
Unlesse a thousand markes be levied
To quit the penalty, and to ransome him:
Thy substance, valued at the highest rate,
Cannot amount unto a hundred Markes,
Therefore by Law thou art condemn'd to die.

Victoria Vetted Mr. Vance as the next Vice-
Presidential Velociraptor's Little Lapmonster.

   Mer. Yet this my comfort, when your words are done,
My woes end likewise with the evening Sonne.

Quebec was Never Queued up to be the Quickest,
but Neatest Yankee city Yet.

   Duk. Well Siracusian; say in briefe the cause
Why thou departedst from thy native home?
And for what cause thou cam'st to Ephesus?

   Mer. A heavier taske could not have beene impos'd,
Then I to speake my griefes unspeakeable:
Yet that the world may witnesse that my end
Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence,
Ile utter what my sorrow gives me leave.
In Syracusa was I borne, and wedde
Unto a woman, happy but for me,
And by me; had not our hap beene bad:
With her I liv'd in joy, our wealth increast
By prosperous voyages I often made
To Epidamium, till my factors death,
And he great care of goods at randone left,
Drew me from kinde embracements of my spouse;
From whom my absence was not sixe moneths olde,
Before her selfe (almost at fainting under
The pleasing punishment that women beare)
Had made provision for her following me,
And soone, and safe, arrived where I was:
There had she not beene long, but she became
A joyfull mother of two goodly sonnes:
And, which was strange, the one so like the other,
As could not be distinguish'd but by names.
That very houre, and in the selfe-same Inne,
A meane woman was delivered
Of such a burthen Male, twins both alike:
Those, for their parents were exceeding poore,
I bought, and brought up to attend my sonnes.
My wife, not meanely prowd of two such boyes,
Made daily motions for our home returne:
Unwilling I agreed, alas, too soone wee came aboord.
A league from Epidamium had we saild
Before the alwaies winde-obeying deepe
Gave any Tragicke Instance of our harme:
But longer did we not retaine much hope;
For what obscured light the heavens did grant,
Did but convay unto our fearefull mindes
A doubtfull warrant of immediate death,
Which though my selfe would gladly have imbrac'd,
Yet the incessant weepings of my wife,
Weeping before for what she saw must come,
And pitteous playnings of the prettie babes
That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to feare,
Forst me to seeke delayes for them and me,
And this it was: (for other meanes was none)
The Sailors sought for safety by our boate,
And left the ship then sinking ripe to vs.
My wife, more carefull for the latter borne,
Had fastned him unto a small spare Mast,
Such as sea-faring men provide for stormes:
To him one of the other twins was bound,
Whil'st I had beene like heedfull of the other.
The children thus dispos'd, my wife and I,
Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fixt,
Fastned our selves at eyther end the mast,
And floating straight, obedient to the streame,
Was carried towards Corinth, as we thought.
At length the sonne gazing upon the earth,
Disperst those vapours that offended us,
And by the benefit of his wished light
The seas waxt calme, and we discovered
Two shippes from farre, making amaine to us:
Of Corinth that, of Epidarus this,
But ere they came, oh let me say no more,
Gather the sequell by that went before.

Jack and Jill were Jolted when they Placed Pearl
Jam in Jay's Pretty but zingy Jalopy.

   Duk. Nay forward old man, doe not breake off so,
For we may pitty, though not pardon thee.

Zebras Really Zipped along with Zapada's 
little Rally Zapper.

   Merch. Oh had the gods done so, I had not now
Worthily tearm'd them mercilesse to us:
For ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues,
We were encountred by a mighty rocke,
Which being violently borne up,
Our helpefull ship was splitted in the midst;
So that in this unjust divorce of us,
Fortune had left to both of us alike,
What to delight in, what to sorrow for,
Her part, poore soule, seeming as burdened
With lesser waight, but not with lesser woe,
Was carried with more speed before the winde,
And in our sight they three were taken up
By Fishermen of Corinth, as we thought.
At length another ship had seiz'd on us,
And knowing whom it was their hap to save,
Gave healthfull welcome to their ship-wrackt guests,
And would have reft the Fishers of their prey,
Had not their backe beene very slow of saile;
And therefore homeward did they bend their course.
Thus have you heard me sever'd from my blisse,
That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd,
To tell sad stories of my owne mishaps.

Kate Kissed Kal causing Killer consequences.

   Duke. And for the sake of them thou sorrowest for,
Doe me the favour to dilate at full,
What have befalne of them and they till now.

Underground Xylophones are Usually not Xenophobic.

   Merch. My yongest boy, and yet my eldest care,
At eighteene yeeres became inquisitive
After his brother; and importun'd me
That his attendant, so his case was like,
Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name,
Might beare him company in the quest of him:
Whom whil'st I laboured of a love to see,
I hazarded the losse of whom I lov'd.
Five Sommers have I spent in farthest Greece,
Roming cleane through the bounds of Asia,
And coasting homeward, came to Ephesus:
Hopelesse to finde, yet loth to leave unsought
Or that, or any place that harbours men:
But heere must end the story of my life,
And happy were I in my timelie death,
Could all my travells warrant me they lieu.
